# Project-1
BEAKER Project 1

Initially, I tried several Marvel APIs, both private and public, but I couldn't get the data calls to go through. After going through documentation and trying for several hours on Marvel, I tried switching to cocktails. I had a cool idea for a cocktail themed app that would display recipes but the API I found wanted payment to use it so I switched again. My API search ended when I finally found this easy to use API with a Game of Thrones theme.

I decided to create a simple Game of Thrones themed app that allows you to click on the different house banners to show you house members using HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Within Javascript, I used JQuery to make AJAX calls to retrieve data from a GOT themed API. First, I set up my HTML boilerplate and made sure all my files were connected with the proper script and link tags. Afterwards, I made a rough wireframe sketch of what I wanted the website/app to look like. As I was sketching out the wireframe, I began to section out my HTML file by adding all my div tags and image tags.

The first thing I did on my Javascript file was setting up the windows on load and testing the ajax calls. After I got the ajax call to return the data, I began to think about how I wanted the website to function. I knew that I wanted the website to populate a bunch of house sigil images and as you clicked on those sigils, it would pop up a modal with information on each family. With that being said, I knew the first thing I needed was the event listener for every time I clicked the sigil. I then made functions to open and close the modal.

While I was testing my modal, I ran into an issue getting the modal to close after I opened it. Initially I set up the modal's css styling to display as none, so when you first loaded the website, the modal wouldn't already be there. Every time you clicked on one of the sigils, the display property would change from none to block and when you clicked the close button, the display block would change back to none. But that wasn't working. I tried troubleshooting by instead of changing the css property back and forth, I tried giving it a class of hide that had a property of display none. So instead, I tried removing the class hide then adding it back and that still wasn't working. I tried changing the event listener from the class of sigil to a variable to event.target and all those seem to have the same issue as well. Modal would open but not close. Then after trying and trying and running a bunch of console logs, Chaz was able to figure out that all the different ways we tried actually WAS working... we just couldn't see it because my event close click was bubbling out and hitting the event listener for my open click and it was reopening again. The big fix was a return false statement at the end of the close modal function.

My next step was to test my data that was being returned. I needed to figure out how to manipulate the data in the DOM to return just what I wanted and not anything else. I spent the bulk of my time on this step. I was having trouble getting the information that would print in the console log, to append to my modal text box completely. For example, if the console log would display an array of objects and the objects were family members and their names but in my modal text box on the screen, it would just say object object. I eventually wrote a for loop that would access deep enough in my arrays to just gather the name's of the family members but I never did figure out why my modal textbox would say object object instead of listing out the contents of the object.

Some of my in between steps, when I would get stuck on a javascript issue, was to work on CSS. I slowly added to the styling of the website by fetching different banner images and sigil images from Google since the API didn't have any. I played around with the sizing and colors, spacing and margins.  

I finished the project early and decided to add a second complex module in the form of a carousel. I have 10 random quotes that append to the carousel when the page loads and when you click the shuffle quote button, it goes to the next random quote. The trickiest part about making the carousel was knowing whether or not I could make a second ajax call or not. We haven't done that before, and luckily it was possible and I got it working with no trouble.

Here is a link to my live site:
https://got-quotes-and-houses.netlify.app/
